README.md, before:

# Gemini File Search Builder

**Build Gemini File Search RAG knowledge bases from any website with automatic citations**

[![Apify Store](https://img.shields.io/badge/Apify-Store-blue)](https://console.apify.com)
[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Apify SDK](https://img.shields.io/badge/Apify%20SDK-3.0-green)](https://docs.apify.com/sdk/python/)

## What It Does

This Apify actor creates a **permanent, queryable knowledge base** from any website using Google's Gemini File Search (announced November 6, 2025). Unlike traditional scrapers that just extract data, this actor transforms websites into intelligent Q&A systems with **automatic citation tracking**.

### Key Features

- 🧠 **Automatic RAG Pipeline** - Scrape → Clean → Upload → Query (all in one run)
- 📚 **Built-in Citations** - Every answer includes source documents
- ♾️ **Unlimited Free Queries** - Pay once to scrape, query forever (no storage fees)
- 🎯 **Challenge Compliant** - 100% banned scraper filtering (Instagram, Amazon, Google Maps, etc.)
- 🚀 **Zero Setup** - Just provide URL + Gemini API key
- 💰 **Cost Optimized** - Smart scraper selection based on your budget
- 🎨 **Multiple Output Formats** - Supports Markdown, HTML, and plain text extraction

## Use Cases

- **Documentation Indexing** - Convert technical docs into queryable knowledge bases
- **Research Databases** - Create searchable archives from academic sites
- **Content Libraries** - Index blog posts, articles, tutorials
- **Internal Wikis** - Transform company knowledge bases for AI access

## How It Works

```
Website URL → Scraper Selection → Content Extraction → Document Conversion
                                                              ↓
         Query Interface ← Gemini File Search ← Upload Documents
```

1. **Smart Scraper Selection** - Analyzes target and selects optimal Apify scraper
2. **Content Cleaning** - Removes ads, navigation, extracts main content
3. **Document Creation** - Formats as clean text with metadata
4. **Gemini Upload** - Creates File Search Store (persistent, free storage)
5. **Query Guide** - Returns instructions for using your knowledge base

## Quick Start

### 1. Get API Keys

**Gemini API Key** (required):
- Visit https://aistudio.google.com/apikey
- Create new API key (free tier available)

**Apify Token** (required):
- Visit https://console.apify.com/settings/integrations
- Copy your API token

### 2. Run the Actor

```json
{
  "target": "https://docs.python.org",
  "max_pages": 100,
  "scraper_budget": "optimal",
  "corpus_name": "python-docs",
  "gemini_api_key": "YOUR_GEMINI_KEY",
  "apify_token": "YOUR_APIFY_TOKEN"
}
```

### 3. Query Your Knowledge Base

After the actor completes, use the returned `file_search_store_name` to query:

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client(api_key="YOUR_GEMINI_KEY")

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    contents='How do I use decorators in Python?',
    config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
        tools=[types.Tool(
            file_search=types.FileSearch(
                file_search_store_names=["YOUR_STORE_NAME"]
            )
        )]
    )
)

print(response.text)  # Answer with automatic citations
```

## Input Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `target` | string | ✅ | - | Website URL to scrape and index |
| `max_pages` | integer | | 100 | Maximum pages to scrape (1-2000) |
| `scraper_budget` | string | | "optimal" | Cost strategy: `minimal`, `optimal`, `premium` |
| `corpus_name` | string | | "scraped-knowledge" | Name for your knowledge base |
| `gemini_api_key` | string | ✅ | - | Google Gemini API key |
| `apify_token` | string | ✅ | - | Apify API token |

## Output

```json
{
  "file_search_store_name": "fileSearchStores/pythondocs-abc123",
  "files_indexed": 150,
  "total_size_mb": 2.5,
  "estimated_tokens": 125000,
  "indexing_cost_usd": 0.0188,
  "storage_type": "File Search Store",
  "storage_persistence": "Indefinite (free)",
  "query_cost_estimate": "$0.001 per query",
  "query_guide_url": "https://docs.google.com/..."
}
```

## Pricing & Costs

### Actor Costs (Pay Once)
- **Scraping**: Apify platform credits (varies by scraper)
- **Indexing**: $0.15 per 1M tokens (one-time)

### Query Costs (Pay Per Use)
- **Storage**: FREE (indefinite, no storage fees)
- **Queries**: ~$0.001 per query (gemini-2.5-flash)

**Example**: Index 100 documentation pages (~100K tokens) = $0.015 one-time cost, then query forever.

## Challenge Compliance

**Apify $1M Challenge - Fully Compliant**

✅ **100% Banned Scraper Filter**
- Social media: Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, LinkedIn, Twitter, YouTube
- E-commerce: Amazon
- Search engines: Google Maps, Google Search, Google Trends
- B2B platforms: Apollo

✅ **Skills-Based Architecture**
- Progressive disclosure (75% token reduction)
- Hook-based enforcement (zero bypass)
- Automated compliance testing

✅ **Test Coverage**
- 49/49 unit tests passing
- 6/6 integration tests passing
- 100% banned pattern validation

## Architecture

### BORG Patterns Used

1. **Skills-First Disclosure** - `.claude/skills/` directory with 3 skills
2. **Hook Enforcement** - `src/hooks/skill_enforcement.py` validates at startup
3. **Banned Filter** - `src/tools/scraper_selector.py` blocks all prohibited scrapers

### Tech Stack

- **Apify SDK 3.0** - Actor runtime & scraper orchestration
- **Google Gemini API** - File Search for RAG (unified SDK `google-genai`)
- **BeautifulSoup4** - HTML parsing & content extraction
- **Python 3.11+** - Type hints, async/await

### Project Structure

```
gemini-file-search-builder/
├── .actor/
│   ├── actor.json          # Actor configuration
│   └── INPUT_SCHEMA.json   # Input validation schema
├── .claude/
│   └── skills/             # BORG L2.5 skills
│       ├── apify-scraper-selection/
│       ├── document-conversion/
│       └── gemini-file-upload/
├── src/
│   ├── main.py             # Main workflow orchestration
│   ├── tools/
│   │   ├── scraper_selector.py    # Smart scraper selection + banned filter
│   │   ├── document_converter.py  # HTML → clean text
│   │   └── gemini_uploader.py     # File Search integration
│   └── hooks/
│       └── skill_enforcement.py   # Startup validation
├── tests/
│   └── test_banned_filter.py     # 49 test cases
├── requirements.txt
└── README.md
```

## Development

### Local Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd gemini-file-search-builder

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run locally
python __main__.py
```

### Running Tests

```bash
pytest tests/  # 49/49 tests should pass
```

### Environment Variables

Create `.env` file (not committed):
```bash
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_key_here
APIFY_TOKEN=your_token_here
```

## Limitations & Known Issues

1. **Apify Store Search** - Current MVP uses hardcoded scraper whitelist. Production would use dynamic Store search.

2. **Proxy Restrictions** - Some sites (e.g., docs.react.dev) may be blocked by Apify cloud proxies. Use accessible documentation sites.

3. **File Size Limits** - Gemini File Search supports up to 2GB per file, 10K files per store.

## FAQ

**Q: How long does the knowledge base persist?**
A: Indefinitely (until manually deleted). No storage expiration or fees.

**Q: Can I update the knowledge base later?**
A: Yes! Upload additional documents to the same File Search Store.

**Q: What's the maximum site size?**
A: Up to 2,000 pages (configurable), ~2GB total content.

**Q: Do I need a Google Cloud account?**
A: No! Just a Gemini API key from aistudio.google.com (free tier available).

**Q: How accurate are the citations?**
A: Gemini File Search automatically cites source documents with chunk-level precision.

## Support & Contributing

- **Issues**: GitHub Issues
- **Questions**: GitHub Discussions
- **Apify $1M Challenge**: Submission ID TBD

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file

## Author

Built for the Apify $1M Challenge (November 2025 - January 2026)

---

**🎯 Ready to try it?** [Run on Apify](https://console.apify.com/actors) • [View Source](https://github.com/your-repo)

Commit message:

Pre-publication fixes: schema description, lower default pages, legal FAQ, integrations, MCP section

README.md, after:

# Gemini File Search Builder

**Build Gemini File Search RAG knowledge bases from any website with automatic citations**

[![Apify Store](https://img.shields.io/badge/Apify-Store-blue)](https://console.apify.com)
[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Apify SDK](https://img.shields.io/badge/Apify%20SDK-3.0-green)](https://docs.apify.com/sdk/python/)

## What It Does

This Apify actor creates a **permanent, queryable knowledge base** from any website using Google's Gemini File Search (announced November 6, 2025). Unlike traditional scrapers that just extract data, this actor transforms websites into intelligent Q&A systems with **automatic citation tracking**.

### Key Features

- 🧠 **Automatic RAG Pipeline** - Scrape → Clean → Upload → Query (all in one run)
- 📚 **Built-in Citations** - Every answer includes source documents
- ♾️ **Unlimited Free Queries** - Pay once to scrape, query forever (no storage fees)
- 🎯 **Challenge Compliant** - 100% banned scraper filtering (Instagram, Amazon, Google Maps, etc.)
- 🚀 **Zero Setup** - Just provide URL + Gemini API key
- 💰 **Cost Optimized** - Smart scraper selection based on your budget
- 🎨 **Multiple Output Formats** - Supports Markdown, HTML, and plain text extraction

## Use Cases

- **Documentation Indexing** - Convert technical docs into queryable knowledge bases
- **Research Databases** - Create searchable archives from academic sites
- **Content Libraries** - Index blog posts, articles, tutorials
- **Internal Wikis** - Transform company knowledge bases for AI access

## How It Works

```
Website URL → Scraper Selection → Content Extraction → Document Conversion
                                                              ↓
         Query Interface ← Gemini File Search ← Upload Documents
```

1. **Smart Scraper Selection** - Analyzes target and selects optimal Apify scraper
2. **Content Cleaning** - Removes ads, navigation, extracts main content
3. **Document Creation** - Formats as clean text with metadata
4. **Gemini Upload** - Creates File Search Store (persistent, free storage)
5. **Query Guide** - Returns instructions for using your knowledge base

## Quick Start

### 1. Get API Keys

**Gemini API Key** (required):
- Visit https://aistudio.google.com/apikey
- Create new API key (free tier available)

**Apify Token** (required):
- Visit https://console.apify.com/settings/integrations
- Copy your API token

### 2. Run the Actor

```json
{
  "target": "https://docs.python.org",
  "max_pages": 100,
  "scraper_budget": "optimal",
  "corpus_name": "python-docs",
  "gemini_api_key": "YOUR_GEMINI_KEY",
  "apify_token": "YOUR_APIFY_TOKEN"
}
```

### 3. Query Your Knowledge Base

After the actor completes, use the returned `file_search_store_name` to query:

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client(api_key="YOUR_GEMINI_KEY")

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    contents='How do I use decorators in Python?',
    config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
        tools=[types.Tool(
            file_search=types.FileSearch(
                file_search_store_names=["YOUR_STORE_NAME"]
            )
        )]
    )
)

print(response.text)  # Answer with automatic citations
```

## Input Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `target` | string | ✅ | - | Website URL to scrape and index |
| `max_pages` | integer | | 100 | Maximum pages to scrape (1-2000) |
| `scraper_budget` | string | | "optimal" | Cost strategy: `minimal`, `optimal`, `premium` |
| `corpus_name` | string | | "scraped-knowledge" | Name for your knowledge base |
| `gemini_api_key` | string | ✅ | - | Google Gemini API key |
| `apify_token` | string | ✅ | - | Apify API token |

## Output

```json
{
  "file_search_store_name": "fileSearchStores/pythondocs-abc123",
  "files_indexed": 150,
  "total_size_mb": 2.5,
  "estimated_tokens": 125000,
  "indexing_cost_usd": 0.0188,
  "storage_type": "File Search Store",
  "storage_persistence": "Indefinite (free)",
  "query_cost_estimate": "$0.001 per query",
  "query_guide_url": "https://docs.google.com/..."
}
```

## Pricing & Costs

### Actor Costs (Pay Once)
- **Scraping**: Apify platform credits (varies by scraper)
- **Indexing**: $0.15 per 1M tokens (one-time)

### Query Costs (Pay Per Use)
- **Storage**: FREE (indefinite, no storage fees)
- **Queries**: ~$0.001 per query (gemini-2.5-flash)

**Example**: Index 100 documentation pages (~100K tokens) = $0.015 one-time cost, then query forever.

## Challenge Compliance

**Apify $1M Challenge - Fully Compliant**

✅ **100% Banned Scraper Filter**
- Social media: Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, LinkedIn, Twitter, YouTube
- E-commerce: Amazon
- Search engines: Google Maps, Google Search, Google Trends
- B2B platforms: Apollo

✅ **Skills-Based Architecture**
- Progressive disclosure (75% token reduction)
- Hook-based enforcement (zero bypass)
- Automated compliance testing

✅ **Test Coverage**
- 49/49 unit tests passing
- 6/6 integration tests passing
- 100% banned pattern validation

## Architecture

### BORG Patterns Used

1. **Skills-First Disclosure** - `.claude/skills/` directory with 3 skills
2. **Hook Enforcement** - `src/hooks/skill_enforcement.py` validates at startup
3. **Banned Filter** - `src/tools/scraper_selector.py` blocks all prohibited scrapers

### Tech Stack

- **Apify SDK 3.0** - Actor runtime & scraper orchestration
- **Google Gemini API** - File Search for RAG (unified SDK `google-genai`)
- **BeautifulSoup4** - HTML parsing & content extraction
- **Python 3.11+** - Type hints, async/await

### Project Structure

```
gemini-file-search-builder/
├── .actor/
│   ├── actor.json          # Actor configuration
│   └── INPUT_SCHEMA.json   # Input validation schema
├── .claude/
│   └── skills/             # BORG L2.5 skills
│       ├── apify-scraper-selection/
│       ├── document-conversion/
│       └── gemini-file-upload/
├── src/
│   ├── main.py             # Main workflow orchestration
│   ├── tools/
│   │   ├── scraper_selector.py    # Smart scraper selection + banned filter
│   │   ├── document_converter.py  # HTML → clean text
│   │   └── gemini_uploader.py     # File Search integration
│   └── hooks/
│       └── skill_enforcement.py   # Startup validation
├── tests/
│   └── test_banned_filter.py     # 49 test cases
├── requirements.txt
└── README.md
```

## Development

### Local Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd gemini-file-search-builder

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run locally
python __main__.py
```

### Running Tests

```bash
pytest tests/  # 49/49 tests should pass
```

### Environment Variables

Create `.env` file (not committed):
```bash
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_key_here
APIFY_TOKEN=your_token_here
```

## Limitations & Known Issues

1. **Apify Store Search** - Current MVP uses hardcoded scraper whitelist. Production would use dynamic Store search.

2. **Proxy Restrictions** - Some sites (e.g., docs.react.dev) may be blocked by Apify cloud proxies. Use accessible documentation sites.

3. **File Size Limits** - Gemini File Search supports up to 2GB per file, 10K files per store.

## FAQ

**Q: How long does the knowledge base persist?**
A: Indefinitely (until manually deleted). No storage expiration or fees.

**Q: Can I update the knowledge base later?**
A: Yes! Upload additional documents to the same File Search Store.

**Q: What's the maximum site size?**
A: Up to 2,000 pages (configurable), ~2GB total content.

**Q: Do I need a Google Cloud account?**
A: No! Just a Gemini API key from aistudio.google.com (free tier available).

**Q: How accurate are the citations?**
A: Gemini File Search automatically cites source documents with chunk-level precision.

**Q: Is web scraping legal?**
A: Web scraping is generally legal for publicly available, non-personal data. Always respect robots.txt and website terms of service. For personal data, ensure GDPR compliance. Consult legal counsel if unsure. Learn more: [Is web scraping legal?](https://blog.apify.com/is-web-scraping-legal/)

## Integrations

Connect with popular automation platforms and cloud services:

- **Make, Zapier, Slack** - Automate workflows
- **Webhooks** - Trigger actions when runs complete
- **Google Sheets, Google Drive** - Export and sync data
- **API Access** - Programmatic control via Python/JavaScript

See [all integrations](https://docs.apify.com/platform/integrations)

## Using with AI Agents

This Actor is compatible with Model Context Protocol (MCP) and can be used with AI agents:

- **Claude Desktop** - Use via Apify MCP server
- **LibreChat** - Integrate into chat workflows
- **Custom MCP clients** - Programmatic access

AI agents can trigger this Actor automatically based on user queries. See the [MCP documentation](https://docs.apify.com/platform/integrations/mcp) for setup instructions.

## Support & Contributing

- **Issues**: GitHub Issues
- **Questions**: GitHub Discussions
- **Apify $1M Challenge**: Submission ID TBD

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file

## Author

Built for the Apify $1M Challenge (November 2025 - January 2026)

---

**🎯 Ready to try it?** [Run on Apify](https://console.apify.com/actors) • [View Source](https://github.com/your-repo)
